Now we're gonna talk about the second
of our serialization format.
So you take a piece of data inside of
Python, you gotta send it to Java,
or PHP or whatever, and you gotta
come up with a serialization format.
XML is a great serialization format for
documents, especially things that kind of
have infinitely nested kinds of things,
like a paragraph within this and that.
And HTML is kind of like XML and
it's a good way to represent documents,
and so that's why this
JavaScript Object Notation is not really
used to represent HTML at all.
And so, JavaScript Object Notation, and
I'll give you this video of
Douglas Crockford, you should watch it.
He's a pretty funny guy.
He claims that he did not invent JSON,
that he simply discovered JSON.
And it is really just the literal, it's a
subtle clean up of the literal syntax for
JavaScript or
the constant syntax for JavaScript.
So in Python you say, here's a list and
it's square bracket this, comma this,
comma this, comma that and
that's a list, right?
That's the constant,
what a list constant looks like.
Well JSON is really nothing more
than a cleaned up version of
how you describe a list or an array in
JavaScript or an object in JavaScript.
An object then becomes like
a dictionary in Python.
And so JSON looks a lot like Python.
It looks like Python constants.
And so it's kinda very natural for
somebody who knows Python to look at JSON.
But, it's not Python, it's JavaScript.
But, it looks pretty much the same.
And watch the Douglas Crockford video.
Douglas Crockford is an irascible,
funny guy.
He wrote this book.
The book on the left is
written by Douglas Crockford
called JavaScript the Good Parts.
And on the right side is another book
written by another author called
JavaScript the Definitive Guide.
And the relative thickness of
the book is making the point.
So JavaScript is a super powerful and
amazing language, and
what Douglas Crockford says is,
we shouldn't use all of it,
we should only use the good parts.
So, as you will see in the JSON video,
the interview that I did with
Douglas Crockford,
JSON.org is something that he just put up.
He pretty much defined it, and
the world just started using it.
He didn't have a corporation or
the US government or
anybody trying to force JSON
down anybody's throats.
He just defined it,
registered JSON.org, and voila,
we have a [LAUGH] whole
industry of JSon stuff now.
So JSON solves roughly the same problem.
The thing that JSON doesn't do as well,
as a infinitely set of nested things,
like XML is better for that.
And it's a little less
self describing okay.
So JSON really represents,
only has two basic structures.
It is either a list and
we call that an array.
Or a dictionary,
it would call it object, okay?
So dictionaries and objects,
are key value pairs.
And then lists and arrays, are lists.
And so, it turns out that the one of
the things that JSON has as its best
advantage, is the fact that inside Python,
we tend to make lists and dictionaries.
And in JavaScript,
we tend to make arrays and HashMaps.
And JSON is a great way to
represent both of those structures.
So those are the two structures
that we tend to do a language
after language after language.
So if you think of the goal of,
one language has some data in it.
We need to serialize it, send it to
another language, deserialize it,
pull it out to another language.
Why not come up with a format that's
most natural between those, okay?
And so, the syntax again
will seem familiar to you,
because it almost looks
exactly like Python.
So, this is some JSON.
There are no lists.
This is just objects.
And so, objects can be nested.
So, again this is the triple quote syntax,
this is a string and
again, where your gonna get this is not
necessarily just from a string, but
it makes these very simple.
And so, this is when you start with the
curly brace then your gonna get a set of
key value pairs followed by commas.
And then, this is a key,
this is again a key and this is a value,
but this value here is a whole object.
And within that object there's key
value pairs, comma key value, and
then there's another one.
So if you look at this outer thing,
there are three keys.
The first key is a string.
The second key is an object.
The third key is an object.
And then within this phone object,
we've got a key value pair,
a two key value pair, so with an email
object, we have one key value pair.
And this is kind of roughly
the equivalent of the person's name and
the fact that the Internet and
phone number's international.
Now one thing you'll notice,
is there's no attributes.
And again,
that's where XML sometimes has advantages.
And so, but that's okay, we just made
a different data type called type,
to capture what was an XML attribute.
We really just have key value pairs here,
and that's it.
Dictionaries, within dictionaries,
within dictionaries.
So, it's a data structure thing, and
you kind of construct the shape of your
JSON, the best way to move data around.
Okay.
So this again is this json string,
in triple quotes that came from wherever.
And we have to deserialize.
That's the first thing
you gotta think about.
Got me some JSON,
time to deserialize that.
Well, like everything we do in Python,
we have an import statement.
JSON [NOISE] built into Python, boom.
Okay.
So it's built in.
So you say import JSON.
So that means you have a whole
library of stuff to do all this stuff.
It's even cleaner than ElementTree.
So import JSON, that's the JSON library.
Use the loads.
So the loads,
load from string is what that says, and
we pass in this string data, all of it.
Double quotes are just part of the JSON,
right?
The double quotes are just
part of the JSON.
So that says this is the deserialize step.
Deserialize from string
to internal structure.
But this is where everybody loves JSON.
The thing you get back, is a dictionary.
It's not like an object that you can
query, it's a actual dictionary.
So, if you were to look at this
dictionary that comes back, well,
it's got three keys in it.
How many things?
There's three of them.
It's got key values.
And the way you pull stuff out,
is you just use it as a dictionary.
Info sub name.
Or, info sub email sub hide.
So, info sub name is that text.
You don't have to go to the dot text.
If you go back to the XML,
we had to do all these find
this then go within that thing.
Because XML was thinking of the world
as trees, which is not how this is.
This is thinking of them as lists or
key value pairs, right.
So info["name"] says
info is this whole thing,
subname is this value right here,
that's what you get.
info["email"] is this thing.
But that itself, is a dictionary.
So this ["email"] retrieves a dictionary
and then ["hide"] within that,
retrieves the value that's under the hide
key within that inner dictionary.
So you can see that it's a lot easier
to think about how to pull this apart,
because this turns into
a native dictionary.
That is super nice.
That's one of the super advantages of
JSON, and that's why everybody loves it.
You just parse it with this loads and then
you use it in its natural form in JSON.
So, you start with a dictionary and
a list.
You make JSON and you pull that into Java,
and it's a HashMap and
an array, and it just works,
cuz it's really better at representing
the natural things that applications do.
So this code's in json1.py.
It's gonna be super boring cuz it's gonna
be really easy, vi json1 So, there we are.
Code you just saw before.
We'll run it.
[SOUND] Pull that stuff apart.
Simple, beautiful, elegant.
Similarly, if we take a look at
a situation where we're gonna
do a JSON representation of a list.
What we see here is a square bracket,
again looking like Python.
Square bracket is the way to
indicate that it's a list.
Although they would call
it an array in JSON.
But for us,
we in Python we call it a list.
And in our list,
we have two things in our list.
A list is things, in this case an object,
and another object separated by a comma.
So these are kind of a person object, and
in the person object we got id maps to
001, x maps to 2, name maps to Chuck.
In the second object, id maps to 009,
x maps to 7, name maps to Chuck.
So there are two objects, 0 and 1.
This is subzero and this is subone.
Okay, so again,
we're using the triple quote syntax
to produce our deserializable code.
The string that's gonna be deserialized,
we use the JSON library
that comes from the import.
We do load string,
which is the deserialization step.
And what do we get back?
This is a list.
Not an object that acts like a list,
it's really a list.
Because JSON has these two simple things,
that's just lists and dictionaries.
So JSON loads, sees the bracket,
say's oh, it's a list.
So you get back a native Python list.
Okay?
So we can do a len,
say how many did we get.
In this case, we're gonna see two.
And then we can loop through, using,
for and in for item and each info, so
that means that item is gonna
loop through this one, and
that's gonna loop through that one.
And then item, because these
are curly braces, item is an object.
So item['name'],
item['id'], and item['x'].
So we're just using standard,
Python-ness of this.
Again, super elegant.
Okay, let me show you that one,
not that it's very exciting.
That one's called json2.py.
So there we are.
We have, at the top we have the string.
And then we parse it and print out.
It's not working very well.
Parse it, print it all out, and
then we loop through each one,
which is effectively loop into that one,
and then that one, and
printing out the pieces based on the fact
that this is a list of dictionaries.
So python json2.py.
Poof, extracted.
And again, you can kinda
compare the XML and the JSON,
cuz they're really
solving the same problem.
But there are subtle differences
between the XML and JSON.
And the JSON is much easier to work with.
But the XML, if you keep looking back and
forth between the XML and the JSON, I
think you'll agree that the XML is harder
to work with, but it's more expressive.
And those are like two
sides of the same coin.
So, for
the things that you can express in JSON,
JSON is pretty much uniformly preferred.
But, for things that are more complex,
that are hard to represent in JSON,
it's like you're kind of
shoehorning them into JSON,
you go like, oh XML would do a better job.
So I think as we go forward,
we're going to see
applications that talk to one another,
sometimes use XML, and sometimes use JSON.
So up next we're gonna take a step
back and talk just a little bit,
including a video, about what's called
the Service Oriented Approach, and
that's how you build meta
applications out of little pieces
that cooperate over APIs and web services.
So we'll do that when we get back.